i  hestitating to different people
and
growing  up in canada i can say that my own contact with
the  history of any age
very  much for the temple
for  my engagement with the history of the british empire
all  over the world in asia and so on it it formerly
from  my looking at the history of the british empire as genial
instead  as a country buildinges something came up again
and  again during my years nature and although my interest at first nations a
young  man
small  percentage of what i did with my time very small
still
importance  and significance of that is
he  had formed the institutional context that was living it in canada
was  a very
i  think remember being a low
and  again and again having to explain to people now you know
white  people are not indigenous population of australia white people
are  not the ambitious population can do slimakowa speak low
he  opening lish peters also
and
you  know although that was said i did think that was
my  place on my responsibility as a member of the population benefit
from  that just
speak  the truth about it all over the world whenever it came up
i  am especially given the context of the country with cambodia which is so
it  always in the penalty blocks and being approached over very bad campodonico
well  you don't you know comedias
oh
and  canada has its own history just
that  nobody is put upon trial for
so  i catechumens depth of dishonesty to responsibility
about  genocide and
indigenous  languages in my own country
i  brought that framework and that said wheaton
to  work on indigenous languages minority languages
it  denominates and dead languages
when  i was working in
and  i could very much say that it was my earlier interest in first to
see  the way i approached littorales in countries like chilian
and  loustalot
a  lot of ways
then  in the ideally feel that my own
concern  with
nations  indigenous people was prior to my interest
in  but as i interested selection
however  the time of my life in which i made the
secret  or to work on a loneliness
create  to be reminiscent i shove
in  that cruel
at  the end of many years in asia many years working
the  jurors to have to say in a sleep that is so and this motivations never
disappeared  you can read what i was invited to give a lecture at oxford university england
and  later their censor but a studious invited directly by professorish long
i  wrote that letter and very short man time
two  days for letter
and
i  saw samothrace enjoyable reads very rapidly written and you can see that
even  there a standing assumers england
the  relevance of england one history of colonialism
the  disappearance of the pelage
in  canada mentioned creagan parallel to what
were  looking at with the
and  coralie
and  indeed only one of the suitings that canada has in common with love
is  that canada was the border where the french empire
and  the briconnet safareen tube
and  do you know the border between low and memorises
likewise  that was with french hamaran wonderin and the bresentiment other
and  they do have a direct order and then the so called offers one was a talent
so  with all the abovesaid i was actually
a  leaded at the
to  work on great when the opportunity was presented
and  the opportunity was entirely created by my wife who is no
act
and  you know for that reason also to foreshadow the story
and  i felt that i couldn't complain too much on the opportunities away from
because  i was grateful to really the one person who made it possible
i  was in a situation where i already knew what a dead ape cambodia
would  be for
and  i then left amelia recite canada
looking  spent and extends my life working on crinolines and aspiring
depend  the whole rest of my life in dealing with the politics
oh  education
language  endangerment
and  very struggles that created a wide have conclude
of  course the struggle
and  what struggles of the simplest ruggles to have drinking water
and  see you know to
tremendously
for  any independent intellectual to get involved and
learning  languages accused to memento time and effort
but  you know that does indeed open the door to people on biting
i  would also say in
in  contrast
you  know
would  have roisia
talking  other resort
i  would warn them
here  a warning that myself but one
never  forget
nobody  here in vain
even  in charity work
don't  don't forget it
people  didn't invite you to come here and help them
even  when he talked of but something is obvious
duration  and of the charity coming handled
still  a sense of a wet your former
and  even if we are poor this is our poverty
and  it may be our pride and tears
this  and not yours and you want to fit it to get involved
you  know that's a politically dynamic situation on
a  very familiar with every sense
and  of course i did appreciate it whenever people did fit me to
do  anything you know waste
when  somebody trusted me enough to talk about sensitive political history
it  religious
or  brought me into religious
but  i knew that my position as a researcher there imposition to inhumation
work
being  an unwanted aside
so  putting on water what i was doing with my life
when  i was in locomotion and cetera
what  i was seeking was a combination of researching antarian work because
i  was a penniless and i want to make a positive difference in the world
with  my brain
they  are very spaces you can do that they're very few ways
and  he would tell you oh you want to share any work will be born rich and to go ahead stretch
you  cary stir asking for the nation
if  you're not a door garanga and most facilite
require  credentials and resources
the  course of i didn't have but you know what i was hoping for it as
was  the notion the hard work and would open the doors oetanata passaient
it  was a small case
he  had country that course desperately to the help like losing
why  i think i was not looking to become a smaller but as living in a
suburb  of london or paris of many people assume that was my host
so  the contrast was you know when i thought to canada and i took up my gloves goyles
started  working so hard on this language sir would i so hard on indenture
engaged  in this splits
these
is  that i was surrounded by people who were saying yes yes yes yes we need
independent  inflections we need people were hard working honest and intelligent we
need  people who are not corrupt many people were not working for the government when people who are not christians
to  come and get involved in our struggle to medicine the
creative  people as both
and  of course scotsman number of apple
who  were involved in in those poisonous and course they also were very positive
and  they were the well susan what i must do in the heart or from the language of none
and  so to a more portraits of course i met cripple
who  haven't montague would i wanted to
he  spoke to me but that would and gave voice to their own sense of regret about
the  parents and the grand pont
and  how the language was disappearing in the one family
but  that was although all the circumstances a sort of tragic
on  a
large  scale and on a person
that  was a tremendously optimistic time for me my life and although
it  was a university that i knew was bad to day one was a university than a scandal in the newspaper
including  financial processes cloth
so  love talk and the government had attracted to shut down us
i  knew i was stepping into a kind of instigator he particularly versed
tremendous  chastitie for me and i was really flourishing into lectures
acting
i  was fentress with the waits for a change
he  and know because when you live in contrast cabinets
as  to my work and i was gorse i
was  throwing myself into the books
with
tremendously  repetitious hard work to learn the language on one side and then
the  history and politics
on  the other side and
securities  newly emerging literature of
and  of a metronome asking the question what is the
for  the linguistic
and  what is the meaning
so  in many ways my time working on cream when i was imagined anterieure
that  would either be the toomilat creed of maybe to animate that was wrapped up
in  a apuleius in many ways lawson of the happiest time in my life
even  people who know me personally
get  that believeth
oh  because of how the three mile had
and  i could see in video which is called how i stopped